fix(display): bake dss_mesh with flat-capable GLSL slices only (140/150/300es) (#4754)
aethersdr/AetherSDR: CMakeLists.txt

        endforeach()
    endif()

    # Shaders in this list get qsb's default GLSL set (100es/120/150). Anything
    # using GLSL 130+ syntax (e.g. the `flat` qualifier) must NOT go here — the
    # 120 slice would bake illegal code that only the driver rejects, on-device,

>     # where CI can't see it. Put such shaders in the dss block below instead.

Reviewer: Good comment to add — but it's a convention documented in a place a future contributor only reads if they already suspect there's a rule. The failure mode you fixed is specifically *silent on CI and visible only on-device*, which is exactly the class of thing this repo gates with a `tools/check_*.py` script.

A ~20-line `tools/check_shader_dialects.py` would pin it: parse the `FILES` list of the default-set `qt_add_shaders` block, and fail if any listed shader source contains a GLSL 130+ construct (`flat` is enough to start). `static-checks.yml`'s own header says the intended shape is a `run:` step, not a new workflow — it'd need `resources/shaders/**` and `CMakeLists.txt` added to that workflow's `paths:` filter, since neither is in the current trigger set.

Non-blocking, and I'd rather see it as a follow-up issue than bolted onto this PR — the fix here is already demonstrated on three toolchains.

One small wording point in this block, covered by the suggestion below.

>     # where CI can't see it. Put such shaders in the dss block below instead.

Reviewer: The pointer names the current occupant (`the dss block`) rather than the property that decides membership. If a second `flat`-using shader appears, "put it in the dss block" reads wrong even though it's right.

```suggestion
    # Shaders in this list get qsb's default GLSL set (100es/120/150). Anything
    # using GLSL 130+ syntax (e.g. the `flat` qualifier) must NOT go here — the
    # 120 slice would bake illegal code that only the driver rejects, on-device,
    # where CI can't see it. Put such shaders in the GLSL-130+ block below.
```

Same thought applies to the resource name `aether_dss_shaders` on line 2408 — something like `aether_shaders_glsl130` would say what the block *is*. That one's pure churn though (the name only feeds the generated qrc init symbol; no resource URL changes), so entirely your call — I'd take the comment reword alone.

            resources/shaders/spectrum.vert
            resources/shaders/spectrum.frag
            resources/shaders/panscope.frag
            resources/shaders/wavescope.frag

>     )

Author: Added in `27c2e28f` — a pointer comment above the default `aether_shaders` block noting that any shader using GLSL 130+ syntax (e.g. `flat`) must go in the dss block, so the next addition can't silently land on an illegal 120 slice.

    # dss_mesh (3D-FFT stacked-trace) is the only shader that uses the `flat`
    # interpolation qualifier — added for ridge stability in #4539 — which is
    # legal only in GLSL 130 and later. Bake it exclusively as flat-capable
    # slices: 140 (desktop OpenGL 3.1, e.g. the Raspberry Pi's v3d driver), 150
    # (OpenGL 3.2+), and 300es (OpenGL ES 3). The qsb default (100es, 120, 150)
    # would offer a 120 slice, where `flat` is illegal — so on a driver that
    # reports GLSL 1.40 (no 140 baked → falls back to 120) the shader failed to
    # compile and the 3D FFT was disabled. Restricting the target set means QRhi
    # never selects a slice this shader can't compile in; on an older GL<=3.0 /
    # GLES2 context no slice matches and the pipeline is skipped cleanly (the CPU

>     # image fallback still renders the 3D FFT). No shader-source change — #4539's

Author: Corrected in `27c2e28f` — the comment now points at `m_dssMeshFillPipeline->create()` failing (`m_dssMeshReady` stays false, CPU image fallback renders), not a validity guard. The same `vs.isValid()` claim is fixed in the PR body's *Graceful on old hardware* bullet. Thanks for the precise catch.

>     # image fallback still renders the 3D FFT). No shader-source change — #4539's

Author: Corrected in `27c2e28f` — the comment now points at `m_dssMeshFillPipeline->create()` failing (`m_dssMeshReady` stays false, CPU image fallback renders), not a validity guard. The same `vs.isValid()` claim is fixed in the PR body's *Graceful on old hardware* bullet. Thanks for the precise catch.

    # `flat` is preserved. Complementary to #4730 (OpenGL outline rendering).
    qt_add_shaders(AetherSDR "aether_dss_shaders"
        PREFIX "/shaders"

>         GLSL "140,150,300es"

Author: Added in `27c2e28f` — `GLSL "130,140,150,300es"`. Confirmed both stages bake a clean 130 slice on Qt 6.11 and 6.8.2 (`flat out/in float vOverlayLayer;`, the large `U` UBO lowered to a plain `uniform U` struct), checked in the actual in-build `qsb --dump` on Mac and RPi5. v3d still selects 140, so the tested path is unchanged; 130 is purely additive coverage for GL 3.0 / software-GL.

>         GLSL "140,150,300es"

Author: Added in `27c2e28f` — `GLSL "130,140,150,300es"`. Confirmed both stages bake a clean 130 slice on Qt 6.11 and 6.8.2 (`flat out/in float vOverlayLayer;`, the large `U` UBO lowered to a plain `uniform U` struct), checked in the actual in-build `qsb --dump` on Mac and RPi5. v3d still selects 140, so the tested path is unchanged; 130 is purely additive coverage for GL 3.0 / software-GL.

    # interpolation qualifier — added for ridge stability in #4539 — which is
    # legal only in GLSL 130 and later. Bake it exclusively as flat-capable
    # slices: 130 (OpenGL 3.0, incl. Mesa compat-profile caps and the
    # `opengl32sw` software-GL Qt ships on Windows), 140 (desktop OpenGL 3.1,
    # e.g. the Raspberry Pi's v3d driver), 150 (OpenGL 3.2+), and 300es
    # (OpenGL ES 3). The qsb default (100es, 120, 150) would offer a 120 slice,
    # where `flat` is illegal — so on a driver that reports GLSL 1.40 (no 140
    # baked → falls back to 120) the shader failed to compile and the 3D FFT was
    # disabled. Restricting the target set means QRhi never selects a slice this
    # shader can't compile in; on an older GL<3.0 / GLES2 context no slice
    # matches, so QRhi finds no GLSL code and the m_dssMeshFillPipeline->create()
    # call in SpectrumWidget::initDssMeshPipeline fails — m_dssMeshReady stays
    # false and the CPU image fallback still renders the 3D FFT. No shader-source
    # change — #4539's `flat` is preserved. Complementary to #4730 (OpenGL
    # outline rendering).
    qt_add_shaders(AetherSDR "aether_dss_shaders"
        PREFIX "/shaders"

>         GLSL "130,140,150,300es"

Reviewer: Verified this target set locally with `qsb` 6.11.1 and `glslangValidator`, on the unmodified `dss_mesh` sources:

```
120      vert  : FAIL — ERROR: 0:44: '' :  syntax error, unexpected IDENTIFIER
120      frag  : FAIL — ERROR: 0:43: '' :  syntax error, unexpected IDENTIFIER
100es    vert  : FAIL — ERROR: 0:44: 'flat' : Reserved word.
100es    frag  : FAIL — ERROR: 0:46: 'flat' : Reserved word.
130      vert  : OK      140      vert  : OK
130      frag  : OK      140      frag  : OK
150      vert  : OK      300es    vert  : OK
150      frag  : OK      300es    frag  : OK
```

The 120 error is character-for-character the one in #4746. And `cmp` on the extracted `glsl,150` and `hlsl,50` slices says **byte-identical** before vs. after for both stages — so this is strictly additive: it adds 130/140/300es, and the two slices it removes were both already uncompilable. Nothing that works today loses a slice.

Adding `130` was the right call — the 130 extract is declaration-for-declaration the same as 150 (`flat out float vOverlayLayer;`, UBO lowered to `uniform U _37;`), so there's no hidden downgrade in that slice.
